surprise: add CLI interface and PyPI update check (#81)
atlas-outreach-data-tools/atlasopenmagic: README.md

all_mc = atom.get_urls('data')
```

## Command-line interface

> Installing the package also installs a CLI, available as both `atlasopenmagic` and the shorter `atom`. It follows a `atom <group> <command> [arguments] [options]` layout and prints JSON to stdout, so it composes well with tools like `jq` or with shell scripts.

Reviewer: Question for discussion: `atom` is a text editor. I love our abbreviation... but do we need to give some kind of alternative or something?

Author: Right; in principle we have both `atlasopenmagic` and `atom` as equipotent commands, if we want we can add something else.

The atom editor was archived in 2022, which doesn't mean that no one is using it anymore, but since we are not competing against an active product, we could have a reason to justify the existence of another atom?

> Pick a release once, then query without repeating yourself:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pick a release once, then query without having to repeat yourself:
```

Author: Done!

```bash
atom release set 2024r-pp
atom dataset show 301204 --field cross_section_pb
atom dataset urls 301204 --protocol https
atom dataset search process "pp>Zprime>ee"
atom weights names 301204
```

The command groups are:

| Group | Commands |
|---|---|
| `release` | `list`, `show`, `set <name>`, `unset` |
| `dataset` | `list`, `show <key>`, `urls <key>`, `search <field> <value>`, `build <defs.json>` |
| `metadata` | `fields`, `keywords`, `skims`, `dump`, `export <file>`, `import <file>` |
| `weights` | `show <key>`, `names <key>`, `list` |
| `cache` | `info`, `clear`, `localize <path>` |
| `env` | `install [packages...]` |

### Searching
`dataset search` reads its value as JSON where it can, so searches keep the types the Python API expects:
```bash
atom dataset search nEvents 20000                     # number, not the string "20000"

> atom dataset search keywords '["2electron","BSM"]'    # requires both keywords

Reviewer: What does
```
atom dataset search keywords ["2electron","BSM"]
```
do?

Author: Nice catch: 

- zsh reads the brackets as a filename pattern and refuses to run at all: zsh: no matches found: [2electron,BSM]
- bash strips the quotes and passes [2electron,BSM], which is not a valid JSON, so the CLIlooks for []. 

The CLI now should notice a value that opens like a list but doesn't parse:
```
$ atom dataset search keywords ["2electron","BSM"]
Warning: '[2electron,BSM]' is not valid JSON, so it is being searched for as text.
If you meant a list, quote it so the shell keeps it intact: '["2electron","BSM"]'.
```

atom dataset search Filters null                      # datasets where the field is empty
atom dataset search process "pp>Zprime>ee"            # not valid JSON, so plain text
atom dataset search keywords 2024 --raw               # force text for a numeric-looking value
```

### Reading data from disk
If you already have the files locally, point the CLI at them and the URLs come back as paths:
```bash
atom release set 2024r-pp --local-path /data/atlas    # remembered for this release
atom --local-path eos dataset urls 301204             # native POSIX /eos/... paths
```
`--local-path` on its own applies to a single command; on `release set` it is saved alongside the release. Use `atom cache localize <path>` instead when you want only the files that actually exist locally rewritten, leaving the rest as remote URLs.

Run `atom --help` or `atom <group> <command> --help` for the full set of options. The deprecated library functions (`get_urls_data`, `build_mc_dataset`, `build_data_dataset`) are intentionally not exposed; use `dataset urls` and `dataset build` instead.

### Output

> Commands that return data (`dataset urls`, `dataset show`, `metadata dump`, `weights ...`) print JSON, so they pipe straight into `jq`. Commands that report state (`release show`, `release list`, `cache info`) print a short human-readable summary instead. Pass `--json` to force JSON everywhere:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Commands that return data (`dataset urls`, `dataset show`, `metadata dump`, `weights ...`) print JSON, so they can be piped straight into `jq`. Commands that report state (`release show`, `release list`, `cache info`) print a short human-readable summary instead. Pass `--json` to force JSON everywhere:
```

Author: Done!

### Caching
Because nothing persists in memory between invocations, the CLI caches each release's metadata under `~/.cache/atlasopenmagic/` so repeated commands don't refetch the whole release. `atom release set` downloads and caches the release up front, so the wait happens where you asked for it rather than on whichever query you happen to run first; pass `--no-fetch` to just save the setting. After that, queries are served from disk:
```bash
atom release set 2024r-pp    # fetches once, ~1.3s
atom dataset list            # served from cache, ~0.1s, no network
```
Entries expire after 7 days. Use `--refresh` to bypass the cache for one command, `atom cache info` to see what is cached, and `atom cache clear` to delete it. The cache is disposable: deleting it only costs one refetch.

`atom metadata import` loads a previously exported file into that cache under a name of your choice, which can then be selected like any other release:
```bash
atom metadata export snapshot.json
atom metadata import snapshot.json --as-release mysnapshot
atom --release mysnapshot dataset list
```

### Update notification

> The CLI checks PyPI at most once a day for a newer release and prints a short notice to stderr if one is available; it never runs on a plain `import atlasopenmagic`. Disable it with `--no-update-check` or by setting `ATLASOPENMAGIC_NO_UPDATE_CHECK=1`.

Reviewer: I'm not sure I know what "runs on a plain `import atlasopenmagic`" means?

Author: It was to say that the check is never triggered on an import, but only from a CLI command.
Rephrased.
